[Music]
how can i attract wildlife to my garden
it's a question we get asked on the
watches time and time again
well there's one way that really stands
out from all of the rest is it benefits
so many different species
and that's to build a pond or a water
source and this can be done
very easily wherever you are and you
should see results
in no time
[Music]
building a pond is one of the most
important things you can do for wildlife
not only is it a place for birds and
mammals to stop by and have a little
drink and a wash
but insects such as dragonflies and
damselflies as well as amphibians frogs
toads and newts
all need these little oasises to live
and breed
it's incredible just how quickly even a
small pond or water source will start
attracting wildlife to your
outdoor space and it couldn't be simpler
you can pretty much make one out of
anything an old washing up bowl
a pop the kitchen sink and that's what
we're going to be doing today
so here i've got an old washing up bowl
which is perfect for creating a ponding
and the first thing we're going to do
we're going to give it some depth we're
going to create
layers of habitat so you've got your
washing up bowl then you're going to
have to collect some
rocks then you're going to fill up
your washing up bowl around three
quarters of the way to the top
and this will give something for
tadpoles and other larvae to hide under
and it also creates a good base for good
bacteria which will help keep the water
clean
now you also need to make a way for any
visitors stopping by for a drink to get
out again in case they fall
in so make sure you have a larger rock
or some sort of ramp so that they can
get back out
now this will also act as a nice perch
for any birds having a drink or a bath
keeping a good level of oxygen in your
pond is really
important and the best way to do this is
with oxygenating plants
now this can be anything from water
violet horn
water moss as they're perfect for all
pond shapes and sizes
now it's best if you fill your pond up
with rain water as this will
minimize any unnatural chemicals or
impurities found in tap water
but if you do have to fill it up with
tap water don't worry too
much as these will balance out fairly
quickly
and there you have it your very own pond
that should start attracting
all sorts of wildlife very soon and if
you do have a go
at creating your own pond please do send
us in your photos and videos to at bbc
spring watch
on instagram facebook and twitter